= Backup utility for database, folders and files
Backs up a MySQL database, folders and files to a default folder (~/backup) or to a specified folder. If the --cron switch is provided the specified database and files are not backed up rather a cron job of the provided command is added to crontab.

== Install
The application can be installed with
    $ gem install syc-backup

== Usage
Backup a database to the default folder _~/backup_
    $ sycbackup -d database -uuser -ppass

Backup a MySQL database, a directory and files to the default folder
    $ sycbackup -d database -uuser -ppass -f directory,file1,file2

Specify a backup folder
    $ sycbackup backup/folder -d database -uuser -ppass -f directory,file1,file2

Override files in the backup folder if they exist
    $ sycbackup backup/folder --override -f directory,file1,file2

Don't compress the backup
    $ sycbackup --no-compress -f directory,file1,file2

Create a cron job that is scheduled every day at 2:30
    $ sycbackup -d database -uuser -ppass -f directory,file1 --cron 30,2,*,*,*

If the user or password contains characters as '(' you have to escape
them. A password like 123(56 has to be provided with pass\"123\(56\".

== Usage of --override and --no-compress
Whether the backup directory and the backup files are time stamped depends how
--override and --no-compress is set. The results are shown in the table below.

    --override      --no-compress     backup directory      backup file(s)
         0                0            w/o timestamp         w/ timestamp
         1                0            w/o timestamp         w/ timestamp
         0                1            w/  timestamp         uncompressed
         1                1            w/o timestamp         uncompressed

== Supported Platform
syc-backup has been tested with 1.9.3

== Notes
The application backs up the MySQL database with _mysqldump_. The dumpfile has the form yyyymmdd-HHMMSS_databasename.sql. After the files are backed up the dumpfile will be deleted.

If the --no-compress is provided the files are copied to the backup folder. Otherwise they are compressed with _tar cfz YYYYmmdd-HHMMSS_syc-backup.tar.gz_.

If the --override switch is not provided the backup directory will be added a timestamp. So if you create a cron job you should every now and then delete obsolete backup folders.

The source contains lib/backup/file_backup.rb which is not used in the application.
    
== Tests
The tests create folders and files and will be deleted after the tests finish. _MySQLBackup_ needs to run a MySQL database with a database _test_ and a user _user_ with the password _pass_.

The test files live in the test folder and begin with test_.

There is a rake file available which can be used to run all tests with
    $ rake test

== Links
* [http://sugaryourcoffee.github.com/syc-backup] - RubyDoc
* [http://www.github.com/sugaryourcoffee/syc-backup] - Source code on GitHub
* [http://syc.dyndns.org/drupal/content/backup-drupal-database] - Development notebook
* [https://rubygems.org/gems/syc-backup] - RubyGems
